# Learn Python with GitHub Copilot - Lab 3: Document the Code with GitHub Copilot 

## Objective
Use copilot to document your project code 
- Jane now wants to use copilot to document her project code.


## Tasks

### Task 0: Open the relevant file 
Open documentation-lab.py in VS Code located in the python-intermediate folder - we will use this file to complete this lab.

### Task 1: Docstrings - Jane wants to document class functions to improve readability.
###

Jane asks Copilot on how she can develop documentation for her Python classes:

> *How can I document my python class?*

Copilot suggests that Jane can use docstrings to document her class functions. Docstrings are used to document the purpose of a function or class. They are written in triple quotes and are placed at the beginning of the function or class.

Jane then creates a docstring by navigating to the remove_task function and following these steps:

1. Add a new line below _def remove_task(self, task)_.
2. Type """ and press Enter. This will generate a basic docstring template. Press tab to accept the suggestion. If the docstring template is not generated, or does not look as we want, you can start filling in the details and it will complete them.
4. Press Enter again to close the docstring.

Sample code:
```python   
     def remove_task(self, task):
       """
       Removes a task from the project.
       
       Args:
       - task (Task): Task to remove.
       
       Returns:
       - None
       """
       self.tasks.remove(task)
```

### Task 2: Inline Comments - Jane now wants to add inline comments to clarify the intent of some of her code
###
Inline comments are used to describe why the code is written the way it is. You can use these to explain lines of code that are not self-explanatory. In Python we use the pound notation to mark the start of an inline comment.
```python   
class Task:

    def __init__(self, description, project=None):
        self.description = description
        if project is None:
            # If no project is provided, add the task to the General project
            self.project = projects.get('General', Project('General'))
        else:
            self.project = project
        self.project.add_task(self)
```
Navigate to the def __init__ function of the Task clss. Below the `if project is None:` statement, activate Copilot by typing the `#` key. If suggestion does not appear, start typing the sentence in code snippet above.

---
### Task 3: Example Code 
Jane wants to add example code to create clarity around how to use functions in her project code

Example code is commonly used to explain how to use a complex class or library. It gives examples on how to use the code created. It can also be used similar to pseudocode, as it can help explain what needs to be built.


Navigate to the `remove_task` function.

To generate example code using copilot:
1. Start a new line below the `remove_task` function comments and type  _Examples:_
2. Press Enter to create another new line and type >>> followed by the code you want to demonstrate. After you type >>> Copilot will default to autocompleting examples for you.
4. Press Enter to execute the code and see the output.
5. Make sure your docstring is closed and ends with """

Sample code:
```python   
    def remove_task(self, task):
       """
       Removes a task from the project.
       
       Args:
       - task (Task): Task to remove.
       
       Returns:
       - None

       :Examples:
         >>> project = Project("Project 1")
         >>> task = Task("Task 1", project)
         >>> project.remove_task(task)
       """
       self.tasks.remove(task)
```
---
### Task 4: TODO Comments 

Jane knows she wants to add a function to export her task list into excel format at a later time and decides to add a TODO comment as a reminder

###
In programming, TODO comments are commonly used to flag and track something that needs to be reviewed, fixed or done in the future

To generate a TODO comment:
1. Place the cursor on the line where you want to add the TODO comment - this can be anywhere in the code.
2. Start typing # TODO to allow copilot to suggest new tasks or fixes.
3. Press Enter to create a new line and continue writing your code.

Sample code:
```python   
# TODO: Add a function to mark a task as complete
```

---
### Task 5: Code Alternatives 
Jane now wants to use Copilot to review some of the code and evaluate different solutions


In programming, there are always multiple ways to solve the same problem. Copilot can offer code alternatives automatically as inline suggestions while you are programming. 

To generate code alternatives in Python using Copilot, you can follow these steps:

1. Navigate back to the `remove_task` function.
2. Place the cursor on the line above `self.tasks.remove(task)`.
3. Type # Alternative code: and press enter.
5. Copilot will generate some code alternatives based on the context of the code that you provided.

Sample code:
```python  
       #Alternative code:
         #if task in self.tasks:
        #   self.tasks.remove(task)
        #else:
        #   raise ValueError("Task not in project")
       self.tasks.remove(task)

```
---
## Summary
In this lab, Jane learned how to use Copilot to document her project code. She learned how to use docstrings to document class functions, add inline comments to clarify the intent of some of her code, add example code to create clarity around how to use functions in her project code, add TODO comments as a reminder, and evaluate different solutions using code alternatives.

# Next Steps
Jane is now ready to move on to the next lab where she will learn how to test her project code using Copilot in [Lab 4: Test the Code with GitHub Copilot](7.%20Testing.md).
